# 1.1 Think About Time
For my time management ideas I read about changing my habits to help with the learning process. I need to start with small habits that will eventually lead into getting bigger over time. It's a lot easier for you to start doing something if you know it's easy because motivation won't be as big as a factor. When you're confronted with a difficult task and you don't have the motivation it's hard to find a trigger to cause you to do the task at hand. It's more important for me to start adding the behavior I want and then the motivation will follow. Time boxing is when you give yourself an allotted amount of time to work and then you stop after the time regardless if you finished or not. I can use this alongside my tiny habits to help push myself to finish my goal but break it into smaller steps so my motivation won't be as big of a factor. Right now I usually sit and wait a decent amount of time to start a project. Once I get going I can get through my work fairly easy but I know with changes I can make this whole process much easier on myself. I learned that the best way to help create a new habit is to piggyback it onto a new one. I'm gonna to start using things I do in my life such as when I shower, eat a meal, and etc to be the moments where I add an allotted amount to work on my coding. I believe if I do it in small increments such as 30 minutes I can eventually get to where I can sit down for a longer time and code away but also not worry if I finish or not at that specific allotted time.
## 1.2 The Command Line
A shell is the command line interface that is used with your operating system. Bash is the most commonly used shell for computers.  Going through this I had the most difficulty when I was trying to move the copy of a text file I created on my desktop to the the temp folder. I thought that by using the pushd and popd I could switch between the two directories and it would just copy. It was really beneficial that I struggled with this though cause it made me use all the techniques that I was being taught to help figure out the solution. I finally realized that I could use the pushd to bring up my temp folder to see the working directory to know the right route to write it down specifically. Once I started to just practicing it became much easier to use all the commands. I would say that all the commands that are listed for us to remember are very important but I would add a few others to the list as well. I would add cat, which prints the whole file out. Grep is also important because it allows you to find specific things such as words in a file. Pushd and popd are also useful to have because pushd allows you to save a directory so that when you use popd it switches you back to it. Pwd stands for print working directory which just means it shows you where you are in the terminal (i.e. Users/name/Desktop). Ls shows you a list of directories which can be your apps, folders, texts, and etc. Mv allows you to move a file or directory to a new location. Cd allows you to change directories. ../ allows you to move back up through a directory instead of going in deeper. Touch allows you to create new, empty files. Mkdir allows you to make a new directory. Less allows you to view a text file and scroll through it. Rmdir allows you to remove a directory but it has to be empty first. Rm allows you to remove files. Help lets you type in a command following it and it will bring up a definition and other useful things about the command written.
###  1.4 Forking and Cloning
First you need to go to your GitHub profile (use GitHub.com/yourusername). Once there you will see a plus symbol in the top right corner, which you will click on and it will give you the option to make either a new repository or organization. We want to click on the new repository. It will then take you to a new page that will allow you to make a new repository. You need to make sure that the owner is your profile and then you can name the repository on the right. Next you will go and click the public option so anyone can work on it. Then you'll click add a license and for us we will be using MIT. Once everything has been changed you can go ahead and click on create repository. To fork a repository, you need to locate the specific repository you want on GitHub and go to it's page. There will be a fork button option in the top right, that you will select and then it will give you an option to choose where to fork it. You must click on your profile. Now that we have the repository forked to our profile we need to clone it to our computer. To do this you go to the repository through your profile and you will see an http url. You will then go on your terminal and locate the directory you want to store the repository. Once there you will put git clone followed by the url that you copied from GitHub. You enter that and it will add the repository to your computer. If asked to login, just login with your GitHub account. Forking is beneficial because it allows multiple people to obtain copies of someone's code without having to alter the master copy. For instance, I can find a code I want to help with, fork it to my account, and then when I add my changes send it back to the person so they can approve the changes to the master while never actually affecting the original copy through my process. I have to say setting up git and GitHub has been pretty straightforward. I always assumed there was a way that programmers were able to share a project so multiple people could work on it at once but I never knew what they used to accomplish this.